.\" ############################# MPC License ##############################
.\" # Wed Nov 19 15:19:19 CET 2008                                         #
.\" # Copyright or (C) or Copr. Commissariat a l'Energie Atomique          #
.\" #                                                                      #
.\" # IDDN.FR.001.230040.000.S.P.2007.000.10000                            #
.\" # This file is part of the MPC Runtime.                                #
.\" #                                                                      #
.\" # This software is governed by the CeCILL-C license under French law   #
.\" # and abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  #
.\" # use, modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of     #
.\" # the CeCILL-C license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the     #
.\" # following URL http://www.cecill.info.                                #
.\" #                                                                      #
.\" # The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have     #
.\" # had knowledge of the CeCILL-C license and that you accept its        #
.\" # terms.                                                               #
.\" #                                                                      #
.\" # Authors:                                                             #
.\" #   - PERACHE Marc marc.perache@cea.fr                                 #
.\" #                                                                      #
.\" ########################################################################
.TH MPC_MPC_Errhandler_create 3 "6/10/2005" " " "MPC"
.SH NAME
MPC_Errhandler_create - 
Creates an MPC-style errorhandler
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.nf
int 
MPC_Errhandler_create (MPC_Handler_function * function,
                       MPC_Errhandler * errhandler)
.fi
.SH ERRORS

All MPC routines (except 
.I MPC_Wtime
and 
.I MPC_Wtick
) return an error value;
C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines in the last
argument.  Before the value is returned, the current MPC error handler is
called.  By default, this error handler aborts the MPC job.  The error handler
may be changed with 
.I MPC_Comm_set_errhandler
(for communicators).  The MPC routine 
.I MPC_Errhandler_set
may be used to change error handeling.  The predefined error handler
.I MPC_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause error values to be returned.  Note that MPC does 
.B not guarentee that an MPC program can continue past
an error; however, MPC implementations will attempt to continue whenever
possible.

.PD 0
.TP
.B MPC_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPC routine completed successfully.
.PD 1

